# About Me

Hello there and welcome to my site! 

### TLDR:
- gamer, chemistry major, then support engineer
- fell in love with computers in college, building a gaming computer
- became part of pro-serv teams

## My FULL Story
Firstly, I've always been a huge gamer: Halo specifically was (and still is) my true pride and joy.  Like many kids growing up in the late 90s and early 2000s, I didn't have my own computer.  Instead I used the family computer... but only when my older siblings were not using it.  Luckily, my siblings were able to get a laptop through our high school, a program that was created to get a ThinkPad laptop to all of the students attending the high school.  It was a great and affordable program that I was looking forward to, but unfortunately for me, that program ended the year I joined the high school, so I didn't get my Thinkpad.  Nonetheless, I still benefited from the high school program since the family computer was almost exclusively mine to use.  Our first family computer could barely run Starcraft 1, I recall my father buying a 128 Megabyte USB flash thumb drive, and our DDR2 ram was no more than a gigabyte in total.  The 32 bit version of Windows XP still treated me pretty well, however our DSL internet was making my Old School RuneScape character rubberband constantly.  Eventually, our dual core Intel Pentium 3 processor based family computer was replaced by an all-in-one Apple iMac.  Between not having much of my own money, and not being able to readily modify the iMac, I unfortunately was not able to really experience the joy of custom PC building.  At least I could enjoy some basic computer games like RuneScape and Halo CE though.

In preperation for college, and selfishly preparing to play StarCraft 2 at launch, I was able to buy my first computer that I could truly call my own.  It was a $300 Walmart special! This Acer Aspire laptop had a hyper threaded single core processor, 4GB of RAM, 1GB of VRAM, 1366x768 resolution and all sorts of struggle bussing.  This obviously also did not peak my custom PC building interests either.  

I eventually found myself in college, at the State University of Buffalo (SUNY Buffalo, Go Bulls!).  At the ripe age of 18, I had no idea what I wanted to do for the rest of my life.  I simply chose to follow my biggest interest at that time, chemistry.  I had an absolutely fantastic high school chemistry teacher, aced all the tests including the high school regents exams, plus my brother was also going to the same school for the same topic, so it was an easy choice.  

Part way though my college experience, I saved up some money, and decided to create my first gaming computer, as a desktop tower. My Walmart laptop was starting to die, and with all of the computers on campus, I had no major need for a new laptop.  I did not have a lot of money for this "gaming" desktop though.  I got the cheapest case, which of course cut me during the build process, cue my 'blood rite of passage'.  This "gaming" desktop didn't even have a GPU in it, because I decided to go with an AMD APU instead, due to cost concerns.  This was back in the Boldozer days of AMD too, so as you may expect, the performance really wasn't there.  

Little did I know how much that little shitty "gaming" desktop was going to change my life. I was hooked.  I fell completely in love with computers at that point.  I recall playing "Metro: Last Light" (2013) at an eye watering 10 Frames per Second on my AMD A10-6800K APU, with my roommate over my shoulder thinking I was completely crazy.  I was so happy to be playing a game on a computer that I built, even if it was a lesser experience than my Xbox One at that time.  

However, I was still going to school for Chemistry.  I thought about switching my major from Chemistry to Computer Science, but I would have had to add at least two more years to my corriculum, and all my friends would have left by that time, not to mention the cost implications.  I ultimately finished my 4-year degree in Chemistry and was only able to take a couple of computer science courses, not even enough to get a minor.  "C's get degrees" really resonated with me.  

I didn't have the best grades, and did not really prepare myself for life after college.  I was extremely fortunate enough to have a family member connect some dots.  That person understood that I really liked computers, and that I was looking for a post-college job, so they got me in touch with a hiring manager, which also happened to be a friend of this family member.  The interview effectivly consisted of "So you know what an IP address is? Yeah, like 192.169.0.1? You're hired."  

## Employment
### Shore Group and Optanix
My first job after college was with a company called "Shore Group", but it also went by the name "Optanix", circa 2016.  The main product/service that I worked on was support for a network monitoring solution.  As a level 1 engineer I was tasked with "MACD" work, for adding/modifying/removing individual devices into our monitoring solution, and generally working first tier support, including on-call support.  For some time, I believe this was enjoyable, but the pay was not enough for the large amount of student loans I racked up for my Chemistry education.  In retrospect, this company's software solution was a full on LAMP stack.  We ran on Ubuntu 12 (Linux), with Apache + PHP for the front end, and Mysql + Perl for the backend.  

The Optanix job was quite a stepping stone.  I was able to understand how Linux works inside and out, given the nature of our product.  I signed up to be part of the first (and only) in-house Linux course in order to pass the Linux+ certification exams from CompTIA.  I honestly failed my first exam attempt, but then passed both exams with almost a perfect score less than a month later.  I became too familiar with SQL because the product's database schema was all over the place, and incredibly difficult to use unless you had previous knowledge. Interestingly, on a newer version of that product, the developers recreated a new database schema that was much more intuitive.  I don't consider myself a DataBase Administrator, but it was very eye opening to see what a difference in the schema could mean for performance, troubleshooting, and overall usablilty.  

Eventually, I became part of a small, hand-selected weekly focus team to review and help fix bugs that we routinely saw in production support.  I was the only level 1 support engineer in the group, with the rest of the group consisting of level 2 and 3 support engineers along with the product manager from Development.  In turn, I started to accept more difficult support cases, attempting to find and fix routine bugs, and was also selected to be the primary engineer to implement a new customer with our product.

This seem to be going great at this point, except for going further and further into debt, and the fact that I was closing less cases than the level 1 support engineer sitting next to me in the cubicles.  I think this lack of ticket closure numbers was the driving factor that got me laid off when the company got aquired by a venture capital firm, Fransico Partners. FYI: Fran Partners is the same firm that bought LastPass right before they started charging for their services.  I understood this as the management team tooking at case closure numbers instead of what those cases actually affected.  The enginer in the cubicle next to me would close a ticket for the same root issue twice a week, while I was investigating that same root cause over two weeks with the bug team, for example.  Arguably, my work was much more valuable to the company, despite my 'numbers' not looking as good.

I was devistated, losing my job while in debt, what was I going to do? Little did I know that was going to be such a good change for me, and I should have left before I got laid off.

### Inovative Interfaces Incorporated
I made a really good friend during my time at Optanix whom I still talk with till this day.  He heard about the layoffs at Optanix, and reffered me to his team at "III", or Innovative Interfaces Incorporated.  I was able to land the job there, which was in a professional services team for Library software.  I worked hand-in-hand with support and Project Managers to upgrade customer systems, and implement feature requests like Single Sign On (SSO) for various libraries across the world.  

This library software was archaic at best.  It was software written in the 80's or 90's and was still being used in 2018.  The software used Java / Tomcat for the frontend, I believe, along with postgres as the database (partially), and a very strange binary map to store record counts.  This was much more difficult to work with vs the LAMP stack I was used to at Optanix.  In retrospect, this software was painfully old, and the associated tech debt was clearly inflating their pro-serv and support departments.  

Although my heart was not interested in being a part of that product, I had to pay the bills.  Luckily, I stayed in contact with another friend from Optanix, who moved to Denver and was starting a new pro-serv team.  He told me to apply, so I did.  

### LevelsBeyond and Signiant
When I started working for LevelsBeyond, I was still living in Syracuse, NY but promptly left to live in downtown Denver.  LevelsBeyond was somewhat of a startup company, and all my efforts were focused on their "ReachEngine" product, which is a multimedia software repository, with built in orchestration.  By "built-in orchestration" I mean it had a proprietary scripting language to automatically interact with some of the multi-media assets.  

Things were going great! I was living it up in downtown Denver, working with companies like the NFL and ABC Disney.  I was making more than ever, finally being able to pay off some student loan debt, I was part of an amazing team, and was learning all sorts of things.  

The pandemic happened, and the company was bought out by Signiant, a file transfer focused software company.  I moved back to New York, and am continuing to work for that company now.  

Now I'm in a learning pattern, absorbing all sorts of languages and frameworks that can be applied intelligently based on the design choices I've seen during past experiences, and how they could have been done better.  